README.md, before:

# Lemmy-Ansible

This provides an easy way to install [Lemmy](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy) on any server. It automatically sets up an nginx server, letsencrypt certificates, and email.

## Requirements

To run this ansible playbook, you need to:

- Have a Debian/AlmaLinux 9-based server / VPS where lemmy will run.
- Configure a DNS `A` Record to point at your server's IP address.
- Make sure you can ssh to it, with a sudo user: `ssh <your-user>@<your-domain>`
- Install [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html) on your **local** machine (do not install it on your destination server).

## Install

1. Clone this repo:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy-ansible.git
   cd lemmy-ansible
   ```

2. Make a directory to hold your config:

   `mkdir -p inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>`

3. Copy the sample configuration file:

   `cp examples/config.hjson inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/config.hjson`

   Edit that file and change the config to your liking. Note: **Do not edit anything inside the {{ }} braces.**

   [Here are all the config options.](https://join-lemmy.org/docs/en/administration/configuration.html#full-config-with-default-values)

4. Copy the sample inventory hosts file:

   `cp examples/hosts inventory/hosts`

   Edit the inventory hosts file (inventory/hosts) to your liking.

5. Copy the sample postgresql.conf

   `cp examples/customPostgresql.conf inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/customPostgresql.conf`

   You can use [the PGTune tool](https://pgtune.leopard.in.ua) to tune your postgres to meet your server memory and CPU.

6. Copy the sample `vars.yml` file

   `cp examples/vars.yml inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/vars.yml`

   Edit the `inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/vars.yml` file to your liking.

7. Run the playbook:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml`

   _Note_: if you are not the root user or don't have password-less sudo, use this command:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become --ask-become-pass`

   _Note_: if you haven't set up ssh keys[^1], and ssh using a password, use the command:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become --ask-pass --ask-become-pass`

   [Full ansible command-line docs](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/cli/ansible-playbook.html)

   If the command above fails, you may need to comment out this line In the ansible.cfg file:

   `interpreter_python=/usr/bin/python3`

[^1]: To create an ssh key pair with your host environment, you can follow the [instructions here](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/keygen#copying-the-public-key-to-the-server), and then copy the key to your host server.

## Upgrading

- Run `git pull`
- Check out the [Lemmy Releases Changelog](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy/blob/main/RELEASES.md) to see if there are any config changes with the releases since your last.
- Run `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become`

## Migrating your existing install to use this deploy

- [Follow this guide](https://join-lemmy.org/docs/en/administration/backup_and_restore.html) to backup your existing install.
- Run `docker-compose stop` to stop lemmy.
- Move your docker folders on the server to `<lemmy_base_dir>/<your-domain>`.
- Copy your postgres password to `inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/passwords/postgres`.
- Follow the install guide above, making sure your `config.hjson` is the same as your backup.

## Uninstall

`ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts uninstall.yml --become`

## License

- [AGPL License](/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Update `Upgrading` section, add basic sanity checks for old files and give warnings

README.md, after:

# Lemmy-Ansible

This provides an easy way to install [Lemmy](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy) on any server. It automatically sets up an nginx server, letsencrypt certificates, and email.

## Requirements

To run this ansible playbook, you need to:

- Have a Debian/AlmaLinux 9-based server / VPS where lemmy will run.
- Configure a DNS `A` Record to point at your server's IP address.
- Make sure you can ssh to it, with a sudo user: `ssh <your-user>@<your-domain>`
- Install [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html) on your **local** machine (do not install it on your destination server).

## Install

1. Clone this repo:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy-ansible.git
   cd lemmy-ansible
   ```

2. Make a directory to hold your config:

   `mkdir -p inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>`

3. Copy the sample configuration file:

   `cp examples/config.hjson inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/config.hjson`

   Edit that file and change the config to your liking. Note: **Do not edit anything inside the {{ }} braces.**

   [Here are all the config options.](https://join-lemmy.org/docs/en/administration/configuration.html#full-config-with-default-values)

4. Copy the sample inventory hosts file:

   `cp examples/hosts inventory/hosts`

   Edit the inventory hosts file (inventory/hosts) to your liking.

5. Copy the sample postgresql.conf

   `cp examples/customPostgresql.conf inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/customPostgresql.conf`

   You can use [the PGTune tool](https://pgtune.leopard.in.ua) to tune your postgres to meet your server memory and CPU.

6. Copy the sample `vars.yml` file

   `cp examples/vars.yml inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/vars.yml`

   Edit the `inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/vars.yml` file to your liking.

7. Run the playbook:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml`

   _Note_: if you are not the root user or don't have password-less sudo, use this command:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become --ask-become-pass`

   _Note_: if you haven't set up ssh keys[^1], and ssh using a password, use the command:

   `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become --ask-pass --ask-become-pass`

   [Full ansible command-line docs](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/cli/ansible-playbook.html)

   If the command above fails, you may need to comment out this line In the ansible.cfg file:

   `interpreter_python=/usr/bin/python3`

[^1]: To create an ssh key pair with your host environment, you can follow the [instructions here](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/keygen#copying-the-public-key-to-the-server), and then copy the key to your host server.

## Upgrading

- Run `git pull`
- Check out the [Lemmy Releases Changelog](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy/blob/main/RELEASES.md) to see if there are any config changes with the releases since your last.
- When upgrading from older versions these playbooks, you will need to do the following:
   * Rename `inventory/host_vars/{{ domain }}/passwords/postgres` file to `inventory/host_vars/{{ domain }}/passwords/postgres.psk`
   * Copy the `examples/vars.yml` file to `inventory/host_vars/{{ domain }}/vars.yml`
- Run `ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts lemmy.yml --become`

## Migrating your existing install to use this deploy

- [Follow this guide](https://join-lemmy.org/docs/en/administration/backup_and_restore.html) to backup your existing install.
- Run `docker-compose stop` to stop lemmy.
- Move your docker folders on the server to `<lemmy_base_dir>/<your-domain>`.
- Copy your postgres password to `inventory/host_vars/<your-domain>/passwords/postgres`.
- Follow the install guide above, making sure your `config.hjson` is the same as your backup.

## Uninstall

`ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts uninstall.yml --become`

## License

- [AGPL License](/LICENSE)
